Blue Gularis Killifish (Fundulopanchax sjostedti)
Bonus content from the September 2009 FAMA magazine article Become a Killifish Fanatic.
Tony Terceira
The blue gularis killifish (Fundulopanchax sjostedti) distribution range includes coastal western Nigeria, the Niger delta and
western Cameroon.
Killifish Care
Blue gularis are large killifish, growing to between 5 and 6 inches in length. They require a great deal of live food. Males can
be aggressive toward females, so cover is required in the aquarium. A varied diet of live blackworms, live and frozen brine
shrimp, and bloodworms will be consumed with vigor. Chopped earth worms are an ideal food to increase egg production.
Click image to enlarge
Blue gularis killifish (Fundulopanchax sjostedti) by Tony Terceira. Killifish Spawning
Blue gularis killifish are best spawned when they are at least six months old. Younger fish have a tendency to produce many
infertile eggs. I find nine- to 10-month-old pairs produce a high percentage of viable eggs. These fish are best maintained in
larger aquariums, I consider a 10-gallon tank the optimum size for a single spawning pair.
It is often helpful to separate male and female killifish with a tank divider to bring the female into top spawning condition.
Eggs are deposited in bottom mops or in a peat substrate. I prefer to use peat moss confined in a plastic container and
placed at one end of the aquarium. Alternately, I collect eggs in bottom mops and remove the eggs from the mop and store
them on peat moss that is covered to prevent drying.
Killifish Incubation
Since incubation times vary based on the conditions and temperatures under which the eggs are kept, it is a good idea to
place a few eggs on the top of peat moss so they can be seen as they develop. Note the amount of time it takes for eggs to
fully develop and use that timeline as a baseline for when to hatch the eggs.
Twelve weeks is the time that works in my environment, but there is a great deal of latitude in hatching time, so your time
may vary. Developed eggs are placed in shoe boxes or smaller tanks with 4 to 6 inches of aged aquarium water. Young will
hatch within hours and are easily able to consume live baby brine shrimp.
Killifish Fry
Blue gularis killifish fry will grow at a rapid rate when provided adequate food and frequent water changes. The first signs of
sexing out begin to show at six weeks. Larger tanks for raising fry will help ensure the fish reach their maximum size. It is
very often necessary to separate fry by sizes as growth rates can vary and larger fry can be very aggressive toward smaller
fry
